🛠️ Troubleshooting Flow
1. Are you using Application Load Balancer (ALB/ELB)?
✅ Check Target Health:
Go to EC2 → Target Groups → Health Checks.
Ensure backend instances are healthy and responding.
✅ Verify Ports:
Backend app must listen on the same port configured in the target group.
✅ Timeouts:
Align backend keep-alive settings with ALB (default 60s).
✅ Security Groups/NACLs:
Confirm inbound/outbound rules allow traffic between ALB and instances.
2. Are you using API Gateway + Lambda?
✅ Response Format: Lambda must return a properly formatted JSON object:
json
{
  "isBase64Encoded": false,
  "statusCode": 200,
  "headers": { "Content-Type": "application/json" },
  "body": "{\"message\":\"Success\"}"
}
✅ Permissions: Ensure API Gateway has IAM permission to invoke Lambda.
✅ Timeouts: Check Lambda timeout vs. API Gateway timeout (default 29s).
✅ Logs: Review CloudWatch logs for Lambda errors.

3. Are you using Nginx/EC2 Reverse Proxy?
✅ Upstream Config: Confirm Nginx points to the correct internal IP/port.
✅ Backend Service: Ensure app (Node.js, Python, etc.) is running and healthy.
✅ Environment Variables: Load .env properly (PM2 doesn’t auto-load).
✅ Database Connectivity: Test DB connection manually; update SGs if blocked.

🚨 Best Practices to Prevent 502 Errors
Always enable CloudWatch logging for visibility.
Use health checks with realistic thresholds.
Standardize timeouts across load balancers and backend apps.
Automate environment variable loading (e.g., with dotenv or SSM Parameter Store).
For APIs, validate response format before deploying.

🛠️ How to Resolve Them
Networking: Double-check VPC, subnet, and SG rules; use VPC Endpoints for private AWS service access.
Gateway Errors: Align backend timeouts with ALB/API Gateway; ensure Lambda/API responses are correctly formatted.
Scaling: Implement Auto Scaling groups and CloudFront caching; monitor with CloudWatch.
Application Bugs: Use CloudWatch Logs and X-Ray for tracing; enforce proper error handling.
Security: Apply AWS WAF + Shield; enforce ACM certificates; use IAM least privilege.
Deployment: Automate testing in CI/CD pipelines; use CodeDeploy with health checks for safe rollouts.
